[Music]
so
each have their own story to tell
some are being hand reared after their
mothers rejected them
others are temporarily checked over and
sent back to mum
full of milk from newborn to three
months old
they are cared for by specially trained
panda nannies
just like human babies they need regular
feeding and plenty of sleep
to prepare their little bodies for
growing up
at 40 days old this youngster has opened
its eyes
and is already five times heavier than
when it was born
it is a panda mini me
this is down to fat rich milk and at
this age
they get it five times a day milk is
baby food for now
after six months they will also be able
to eat solids
for pandas that means bamboo
come on baby gawa
with nannies in attendance is preparing
for her
very first bath
[Music]
when you're just a few days old
everything
is an adventure
[Music]
she's right on the edge if you're not
careful you're going to fall in baby
careful careful careful careful daisy
one way to do it she's fine
[Applause]
anything weaver can do
gower can do as well
in comparison to gawa weaver is looking
strong and confident
so much so she's taking the hard way out
of the waterhole
up you come you can do it you can do it
wendy lanes are helping drunk help
or is that hindrance no that's help
in times of real need the nannies are
still
there for her that is so lovely to see
look she's getting crowded
around by other elephants they see that
she's struggling a little bit
he's just helping her out it's trunk
coming down that's really wonderful do
you know that's sort of a testament to
how much
weaver has come on she's pushing herself
she's testing her abilities
she's back on dry land
now it's gawa's turn
oops oh i think you've come up too soon
that baby's gonna struggle
whoa she's almost doing the splits oh my
goodness me
up you come come on i'll be come
come on come on
at this age she has limited energy
reserves
quickly she's overwhelmed with
exhaustion
baby elephants can perish stuck in the
mud her head flat down in the mud she's
she's really tired
the adult members of this herd sometimes
lack the experience to deal with
problems
normally herds are led by an older
matriarch who would know how to get gawa
out of this maze
benjamin has to show them the easy way
out
just trying to encourage them out okay
benji is just going to go in and see if
you can push them out
that's the one
that's doing it yeah that's helping
definitely look she's coming out
hope you come keep coming keep coming
keep coming keep
coming keep coming
[Music]
that's ridiculous look at that that is
one
very happy very muddy baby elephant
[Music]
oh good boy hey my darling
hi horace was rescued about five months
ago
just like harriet it's thought his mum
was hit by a car
he was just found sitting by her body he
was not even two weeks old
he was very traumatized very dehydrated
and he's made a really good recovery and
he has
created this amazing life for himself at
twala but
as much as it's it's lovely for horus to
have a serval and a daika and a dog
and domestic kittens as friends it would
be really
good for him to actually start learning
about being a monkey
and this could be his big chance another
orphan has just arrived at the center
this is jackie she is
also an orphan vervet um
a little bit younger than horace she's
probably three and a half months old now
what a clever girl hey
jackie lost her mum too and is still
very traumatized she's going to need
lots of love and and reassurance
but if she can form a relationship with
horus that would also be great for her
because obviously the most comforting
thing for her would be to be
with another monkey
[Music]
it's an important meeting good boy
if they get on horus will help jackie
become more confident
i am right here jackie so you don't need
to freak
okay we can just do our own thing
okay
what do you think and jackie will teach
horace what it's like to play
climb and learn with his own kind
hello horror special boy you mustn't be
jealous
gently jackie be nice come on let's be
friends
there we go oh good girl
oh good girl well done horace
and you're being such a gentleman i'm
very proud of you
they are getting on so well
you know my keys are into everything and
now that we have
twofold monkeys there's going to be no
peace
horus and jackie can now grow up
together here at twala
and sarah hopes that when they're older
they will join the centre's monkey
troupe
i do my best to teach them what what i
can
but there is no better way for them to
learn than from each other
there's something beneath my feet that
if you didn't know i reckon you'd be
pretty hard pressed to guess what
now i'll give you a clue it's a kind of
animal but it's not a mole
or a rat or anything like that it is in
fact
a bird
david steele is a warden here on the
farn islands
he's hoping to reveal to me who's
responsible for engineering this
subterranean world
oh nope nothing in that one
nope oh got one have you yeah i've got
one
yes i've got one here here we go this
should be quite interesting fun
here sir is oh
look at that look at you say hello to
the world
puffins spend most of their lives at sea
but when they return to land
they become borrowers you can see um how
puffins dig that the halls they've
actually got big
claws i don't know if you can see them
on the end of the feet really sharp
claws
extremely sharp claws and will actually
just dig their bows with those claws
and and the bill so that's that's it
they dig so fanatically for one fluffy
reason
now is there a puff ling in there well
do we know well
if they're hoping so let's just going to
put him down just keep him to one side
okay and and is he quite happy there he
is i'm going to pass you if i can get
the chicken i'm going to pass the chick
to you
oh yeah this is my first puffling so
this
this will be the first time this
puffling has seen the outside world so
i'm just going to put it in your hand
there you go sir you're going to oh look
i just got a bit of grass over his hair
that's it
oh look hi hi there can you see come on
say meet your adoring public
there we go look at that is a puffling
well he'll spend about 40 days down this
dark
damp hall and then under the cover of
darkness without
parents consent he's gonna walk to the
sea
and he'll spend the next three years on
the sea
before eventually returning to breed as
a breeding adult
and life for them can be 30 35 years
now listen to you i'm going to put you
back with your mum in your borough
underground
is this right i just yeah just put it
down
puffins lay only one egg a year
so every puffling is precious
that's why they dig their burrows up to
two meters long
to keep their young safe from voracious
predators such as the great skewer
with 80 000 puffins here this is a
city of seabirds all tucked safely
beneath the ground
on these islands these cute little birds
have constructed
an astonishing complex
a staggering 80 kilometers of tunnels
and burrows
[Music]
essentially this is the most excavated
piece of real estate
anywhere in the uk
[Music]
this is four-month-old mangy an orphan
baby white rhino
that lives here at care for wild africa
it's a nice
wonderful morning did you sleep well my
boy did you sleep well
a rescue center founded by petronel new
boat
for me to be able to work with them and
by allowing me
in their space is everything for me
she has over 20 years experience working
with wildlife
and his surrogate mom to over 20 rhinos
you can't play with me mother you cannot
play with me i'm too small
petronel's rhinos are all at different
stages of rehabilitation
some are large enough to roam free in a
wild reserve
but rescue babies need care around the
clock
happy baby everybody every baby
and baby mangy is her biggest challenge
yet
manji means place of the stars
and he's a star this is star in my life
he's the youngest rhino that petronel
has ever rescued
okay drop some first at just two days
old
his mother was killed by poachers for
her horn
and he too was attacked with a machete
and received near fatal head injuries
in every rescue the first 48 hours are
crucial
petronel didn't leave mangy's side he
was so small
and so skinny the blood loss was immense
and i called everyone i know i just know
hey
we're going to save this one and after
intense medical treatment
doctors managed to save him
[Music]
manji is the survivor of survivors he's
a brilliant little one i'm very very
proud of him and i love him i love him
tibet
manji now needs to learn how to be a
wild rhino
and petronal is determined that he and
all her orphans return to where they
belong
there was never a choice for me in
looking after these giants
it's a journey it's a lifelong
commitment
i want them to be free i want them to be
in the world
white rhinos are highly social mammals
and a crucial part of their
rehabilitation
is to become part of a
[Music]
it's herd to come out play time glitter
since arriving manji has been living in
this small intensive care unit
with other rescued baby rhinos
petronel is pleased with the progress
he's making
you know he at one stage will have to
fight for territory
so he needs to be strong in character he
needs to be a leader
and that's what i want and i see it in
him i can clearly see it in him
he's a fighter he wanted to live
definitely he wants to live
but this will not be his permanent home
we want to release him back into the
world they heard animals they
like the socialism they play they mud
bath
if i see him doing well in that stages i
know he will do well outside there
manji is now strong enough to learn how
to fend for himself
and his whole world is about to change
i'm so proud of him you know i'm so
proud of him
he didn't give up so how can i give
up on him i will never he didn't give up
[Applause]
you